Do you have relatives
who are presently not serving Jehovah?
I think most of us do.
And we’re not alone.
Even our Lord Jesus
had that same circumstance.
Even though his half brothers knew
about the miracles he was performing,
the Bible says that they were not
expressing faith in Jesus as the Messiah.
Well, it was so bad
—can you imagine?—
that when Jesus was being put to death,
it appears that his brothers were not there.
Do you remember the account
when Jesus was on the torture stake
and he looked down at the disciple
and asked him basically
to become responsible for His mother?
They weren’t there to support Him.
But what happened just a short while
after Jesus had been resurrected?
Well, it was amazing
because some of those
half brothers were found,
along with Jesus’ mother,
with the disciples fervently praying.
Can you imagine how Jesus must have felt?
Can you imagine the joy
he must have experienced
to see them now beginning to express faith?
Well, maybe you’ve had that experience too.
Maybe one of your relatives
—maybe your mate,
one of your children, one of your siblings—
has now come to serve Jehovah.
How wonderful!
What a joyful feeling!
Really, nothing could compare to it.
Well, what was it
that helped Jesus’ half brothers
to go from being faithless
to putting faith in him?
And what can you
and I learn from that example?
Well, let’s address that question.
What was it that helped
Jesus’ brothers to acquire faith?
Well, here’s the number one thing:
Jesus was patient with his relatives.
Now, that’s an important point,
because look at how Jesus
was treated by his relatives.
Would you look with me at Mark 3:21?
It says there:
“But when his relatives heard about it,
“they went out to seize him,
for they were saying:
‘He has gone out of his mind.’”
Jesus did not take offense
—even though his relatives
were trying to seize him
and even though they said he had gone crazy.
Have your relatives perhaps
said some things like that to you?
Jesus did not take offense.
He was patient.
Well, in fact, after his resurrection,
look at what Jesus did.
Let’s go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15,
and let’s read together verse 7.
It says: “After that he appeared to James,
then to all the apostles.”
Now, this is just a very small detail,
but did you notice what it said?
It said: “[Jesus] appeared to James.”
Well, now, we don’t know what Jesus
said to James when He appeared to him.
But the point is
that Jesus made a special effort
to appear to His half brother James.
Well, James must have deeply appreciated
that special attention from Jesus.
And why do we say that?
Well, James went on to become
a respected elder
in the congregation in Jerusalem.
In fact, you may remember
that in Acts chapter 15,
when the apostles and older men
gathered in Jerusalem
to consider the matter about circumcision,
it seems that James was the one
who was presiding at that meeting.
Well, what had happened?
James had gone from being a faithless person
to now being a pillar in the congregation.
James and His other half brother Jude
both had the privilege of writing letters
that were included
in the Christian Greek Scriptures.
Well, now, in the following video,
please take careful note
of what helped a family member
to be a person with faith.
The truth came to our home
through my mother.
I was never seriously interested
in the truth.
Where we grew up,
education was very important.
A person needed to make money
and live a lavish life.
So that’s the life I chose
—to study, to get higher education—
so that I could have what others had.
Although they could see
that I wasn’t interested in the truth,
my mother and brother did not give up on me.
When I came back from school in January,
my mother ordered the Examining
the Scriptures Daily  booklet for me.
Year after year, I always had
the Examining the Scriptures Daily  booklet
and a Bible.
She made sure
that although I wasn’t attending meetings,
at least I had literature.
Besides that, my younger brother,
the one I was close to,
decided to take the truth seriously.
When I came back from school,
I saw my brother
getting a Bible study of his own,
and I was surprised to see him
studying the Bible
and noticed that he had prepared.
He cared about
and loved what he was learning.
That’s when I understood
that the Bible changes lives.
A scripture that comes to mind
is Hosea 11:4.
There it shows that Jehovah
pulls us with “cords of love” and “kindness.”
In my situation, Jehovah did this.
So I made the decision to be regular
at the congregation meetings,
and I finally started studying
the Bible with someone in 2007
and got baptized in 2008.
My family really encouraged me;
they never gave up on me.
And I encourage parents
not to give up on their children.
They must continue encouraging them
and have the hope
that Jehovah God
will draw them to the organization
because they have good hearts.
Well, brothers and sisters, we want
that same experience for our relatives.
What can we do to help them to grow in faith?
Well, let’s talk briefly about three things.
Here’s the first one:
Be patient with your relatives.
We want to imitate the example
of our wonderful God, Jehovah.
Do you remember when the nation of Israel
went astray so many times?
Well, in Jeremiah chapter 44,
the Bible says that Jehovah sent his prophets
“again and again.”
He was very patient with his people.
We want to be patient with our relatives too.
Don’t give up on them.
And then second, we want to be tactful.
We want to look for ways that we
can stimulate their interest in the truth.
Yeah, it’s true, Jesus described
the message of the truth
like “water” that could
lead to “everlasting life.”
But have you ever tried
to drink from a fire hydrant?
That’s a very difficult thing to do.
We don’t want our relatives to choke
because we’re forcing too much information
with too much force, or power.
Instead,
we want our relatives
to feel refreshed by the truth.
Well, whether our relatives
feel choked or refreshed
will really depend on how we
go about explaining the truth to them.
So be tactful and speak
to them in a loving way
that will stimulate their interest.
Let’s go to that third point:
We want to show empathy
to our relatives
and let our conduct speak for us.
You know, when we first learn the truth,
our relatives may not be sure of how this
is now going to affect
our relationship with them.
Instead of thinking of many,
many different things that we could say,
it’s important to remember that what we do
is going to speak far more loudly
than the things that we say.
You know, there is a saying that says:
“I’d rather see a sermon than hear one.”
Isn’t that true?
One sister named Pauline realized
that instead of talking to her husband
so much about the truth,
she needed to set a good example.
Well, when her husband
observed the good effect
that the Bible was having on his wife
and on his children,
that was the thing that opened
his mind and opened his heart
to the message of the good news.
You just don’t know, brothers and sisters,
the good effect of your conduct,
of your example, on your relatives.
You know, about two years ago,
I was out in California
at a regional convention
and a sister came up to me with two brothers.
Now, she had been raised
by her faithful mother in the truth,
but she had gone away
from the truth for more than 30 years.
She watched a broadcast,
and she was moved to return.
She then reached out to her brother
who was also away from the truth
for more than 30 years.
He decided to come back too.
And then the two of them
reached out to their other brother
who was also away for more than 30 years,
and he also came back.
Here the three of them were in front of me.
Well, the sister said:
“I think my mother is going to have
to be resurrected twice.
“We were all out of the truth when she died.
“When she sees us in the new world,
she’ll be so shocked that I’m sure
she’ll need to be resurrected again.”
What’s the point?
The good example
of their mother stayed with them
even long after their mother had passed away.
Brothers and sisters,
Jehovah can use you to help your relatives.
They might be faithless right now,
but with your help,
they can become full of faith.
It worked in the case of Jesus,
and it can work for you too.
Now Brother Ralph Walls,
a helper to the Personnel Committee,
will consider the next talk
of this symposium,
“Remember—Faithless People
Can Acquire Faith!
—Prominent Ones.”